feat: add support for automatic session driver config (#13145)
withastro/astro: .changeset/tricky-insects-argue.md

---
'astro': patch
---

:warning: **BREAKING CHANGE FOR EXPERIMENTAL SESSIONS ONLY** :warning:

Changes the `experimental.session` option to a boolean flag and moves session config to a top-level value. This change is to allow the new automatic session driver support. You now need to separately enable the `experimental.session` flag, and then configure the session driver using the top-level `session` key if providing manual configuration.

```diff
defineConfig({
  // ...
  experimental: {
-    session: {
-      driver: 'fs',
-    },
+    session: true,
  },
+  session: {
+    driver: 'fs',
+  },
});
```

> You do not need to configure the session driver if you are using an adapter that supports automatic session driver configuration. For more information, see the [experimental session docs](https://docs.astro.build/en/reference/experimental-flags/sessions/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You no longer need to configure a session driver if you are using an adapter that supports automatic session driver configuration and wish to use its default settings.

However, you can still manually configure additional driver options or choose a non-default driver to use with your adapter with the new top-level `session` config option. For more information, see the [experimental session docs](https://docs.astro.build/en/reference/experimental-flags/sessions/).
```
Just thought *somewhere* we could mention that there are options that someone might want to set for even the default supported driver? (If I have this right.) It's not that `session` is *only* for choosing a different driver, but for setting any options like the new `ttl` etc.

```diff
defineConfig({
  // ...
  experimental: {
-    session: {
-      driver: 'fs',
-    },
+    session: true,
  },
+  session: {
+    driver: 'fs',
+  },
});
```

You do not need to configure the session driver if you are using the Node or Netlify adapters and want to use the default session drivers for each adapter. The default session driver for the Node adapter is `fs`, and the default session driver for the Netlify adapter is `netlify-blobs`.

For example, if you are using the Node adapter, you can just enable the flag:

```js
defineConfig({
  // ...
  adapter: node({
    mode: 'standalone',
  }),
  experimental: {
    session: true,
  },
});
```
This will configure the session driver to use the default `fs` driver for the Node adapter. See the release notes for `@astrojs/node` and `@astrojs/netlify` for more information on the default session drivers for each adapter.

> If you enable the flag but are using an adapter that does not have a default session driver, you will need to configure the session driver manually or the build will fail.

Reviewer 2: nit: I think the description of the changeset should be generic and avoid the mention of specific adapters. For example, it should state that now adapters can configure the default session driver. 

Then, the details of each driver should be moved inside the changesets that belong to `@astrojs/node` and `@astrojs/netlify`. For example, the code snippet should belong to the node adapter.
